User animations (#42)
husarion/panther_ros: panther_lights_controller/README.md

#### Parameters

> - `~animations` [*list*, default: None]: it is a required ROS parameter containing a list of defined animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `~animations` [*list*, default: **None**]:  required list of defined animations.
```

- `~controller_frequency` [*float*, default: **100**]: frequency at which the lights controller node will process animations.
- `~global_brightness` [*float*, default: **1.0**]: LED global brightness. Range between [0,1].
- `~num_led` [*int*, default: **46**]: number of LEDs in single panel.
- `~test` [*bool*, default: **false**]: enables testing mode with some extra functionalities.

> - `~user_animations` [*list*, default: None]: it is an optional ROS parameter containing a list of animations defined by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `~user_animations` [*list*, default: **None**]: optional list of animations defined by the user.
```
I'm a bit lost right now how are we supposed to define it outside of YAML. But it is ok nevertheless

| 0   | E_STOP            | red expanding from the center to the edges                  |
| 1   | READY             | green expanding from center to the edges                    |
| 2   | ERROR             | red blinking twice                                          |
| 3   | MANUAL_ACTION     | blue expanding from the center to the edges                 |
| 4   | AUTONOMOUS_ACTION | orange expanding from center to the edges                   |
| 5   | GOAL_ACHIEVED     | purple blinking three times                                 |
| 6   | LOW_BATTERY       | two orange stripes moving towards the center, repeats twice |
| 7   | CRITICAL_BATTERY  | two red stripes moving towards the center, repeats twice    |

Default animations are described and loaded on the node start, directly from `config/panther_lights_animations.yaml`. Supported keys are:

- `animation` [*dict*]: definition of animation. See section below for more info.
- `id` [*int*]: ID of an animation.
- `interrupting` [*bool*, optional]: if *true* animation will interrupt currently displayed animation.
- `name` [*string*, optional]: name of an animation.

> ### ImageAnimation

Reviewer: There is rough transition between default animations and animation class. An additional subsection saying something like "AnimationTypes" or something like this would give the needed introduction to the topic

Animation returning frame to display based on an image. Supported keys are:

- `brightness` [*float*, optional]: animation brightness. This will overwrite `global_brightness` for a given animation.
- `color` [*int*, optional]: image will be turned into grayscale and then the color will be applied with brightness from grayscale. Values have to be in HEX format.
- `duration` [*float*]: duration of a single image animation.
- `image` [*string*]: path to an image file. Only global paths are valid. Allows using `$(find ros_package)` syntax.
- `repeat` [*int*, optional]: number of times the animation will be repeated, by default animation will run once.
- `type` [*string*]: required field specyfying animation type, for `ImageAnimation` value should be `image_animation`.

> **NOTE:** The overall display duration of an animation is a product of a single image duration and repeat count. It can't exceed 10 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:bulb: **NOTE:** The overall display duration of an animation is a product of a single image duration and repeat count. It can't exceed 10 seconds.
```
It might be added, might be omitted

### Defining animations

User can define own animations using basic animation types. Similar to basic ones user animations are parsed using a ROS parameter `/panther/lights/lights_controller_node/user_animations`. They can be loaded on node start or updated using the `/panther/lights/controller/update_animations` ROS service. For `ImageAnimation` you can use basic images from the `animations` folder and change their color with the `color` key ([see ImageAnimation](#imageanimation)). Follow the example below to add custom animations. 

1. Create a yaml file with an animation description list. Example file: 

> **NOTE:** ID numbers from 0 to 19 are reserved for system animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:bulb: **NOTE:** ID numbers from 0 to 19 are reserved for system animations.
```
Same as above

```yaml
# user_animations.yaml
user_animations:
  # animation with default image and custom color
  - id: 21
    name: 'ANIMATION_1'
    animation:
      both:
        type: image_animation
        image: $(find panther_lights_controller)/animations/strip01_green.png
        duration: 2
        repeat: 2
        color: 0xffff00

  # animation with custom image
  - id: 22
    name: 'ANIMATION_2'
    animation:
      both:
        type: image_animation
        image: /animations/custom_image.png
        duration: 3
        repeat: 1

   # animation with custom image from custom ROS package
   - id: 23
       name: 'ANIMATION_3'
       animation:
         both:
           type: image_animation
           image: $(find my_custom_animation_package)/animations/custom_image.png
           duration: 3
           repeat: 1
```

1. Add docker volume with a previously created animation description list. If using custom images for `ImageAnimation`, add also a docker volume with a folder containing custom images. On Raspberry Pi modify `compose.yaml`:

```yaml
volumes:
  - ./user_animations.yaml:/user_animations.yaml
  - ./animations:/animations
```

> **Warning**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:warning: **Warning**
```
This will look even more warningly

While using docker you will only be able to find packages that are within that docker. Only images from packages that were built inside that docker imge can be  found using `$(find my_package)` syntax. Global paths work normally, but will refere to paths inside docker container.

3. Modify `command` in `compose.yaml` to use user animations:

```yaml
command: roslaunch panther_bringup bringup.launch user_animations_file:=/user_animations.yaml --wait
```

4. Restart the docker container:

```
docker compose up -d
```

5. Display new animations:

```bash
rosservice call /lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, name: 'ANIMATION_1'}, repeating: false}"
```

> #### Updating animation list at a runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Updating animation list at a runtime
```
I think this can be a separate step

```

### Defining new animation type

It is possible to define your own animation type with expected, new behavior. All animation definitions are stored in `/src/animation` and inherit from the basic class `Animation`. This class consists of:

Arguments:

- `animation_description` [*dict*]: a dictionary containing animation description, `Animation` class will process:
  - `brightness` [*float*, optional]: will be assigned to the `self._brightness` variable as a value in range [0,100].
  - `duration` [*float*]: will be assigned to `self._duration` variable.
  - `repeat` [*int*, optional]: will be assigned to `self._loops` variable.
- `num_led` [*int*]: number of LEDs in a panel.
- `controller_freq` [*float*]: controller frequency at which animation frames will be processed.

Methods:

- `__call__` - by default it is not implemented and must be overwritten. It returns an animation frame as a list of integers. It should also set the `self._finished` variable `true` when the last animation frame is returned.
- `reset` - by default it is not implemented. It allows resetting animation.

Properties:

> - `brightness` [*int]: returns animation brightness from `self._brightness`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `brightness` [*int*]: returns animation brightness from `self._brightness`.
```

- `num_led` [*int*]: returns number of LEDs in panel from `self._num_led`.
- `finished` [*bool*]: returns if animation execution is finished from `self._finished`.

> The new animation definition should contain `ANIMATION_NAME` used to identify it. Animation frames are processed in ticks with a frequency of `controller_freq`. To tweak animation duration time use the `controller_freq` and `_duration` variables. For an example see other animation definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new animation definition should contain `ANIMATION_NAME` used to identify it. Animation frames are processed in ticks with a frequency of `controller_freq`. To tweak animation duration time use the `controller_freq` and `_duration` variables. As an example see other animation definitions.
```

> 

Reviewer: I can not refer to lines not changed in this PR, but I would modify definition of some parameter.
- `~animations` [*list*, default: **None**]: it is a required ROS parameter containing a list of defined animations.
- `~global_brightness` [*float*, default: **1.0**]: LED global brightness. Range between [0,1]
- `~test` [*bool*, default: **false**]: enables testing mode with some extra functionalities.

Also. Isn't 100 hertz a bit too high frequency for displaying animations?

Author: I used 100Hz to see if everything works in high speed. Definitely too high, will be changed when fixing lights node parameters.

Reviewer: Ok. Makes sense

## Animations

> Basic animations are parsed as a list using the ROS parameter. Currently, defined animations are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basic animations are parsed as a list using the ROS parameter. Default animations supplied by Husarion are listed in table below.
```

| ID  | NAME              | DESCRIPTION                                                 |
| --- | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0   | E_STOP            | red expanding from the center to the edges                  |
| 1   | READY             | green expanding from center to the edges                    |
| 2   | ERROR             | red blinking twice                                          |
| 3   | MANUAL_ACTION     | blue expanding from the center to the edges                 |
| 4   | AUTONOMOUS_ACTION | orange expanding from center to the edges                   |
| 5   | GOAL_ACHIEVED     | purple blinking three times                                 |
| 6   | LOW_BATTERY       | two orange stripes moving towards the center, repeats twice |
| 7   | CRITICAL_BATTERY  | two red stripes moving towards the center, repeats twice    |

> Basic animations are described and loaded on the node start, directly from `config/panther_lights_animations.yaml`. Supported keys are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default animations are described and loaded on the node start, directly from `config/panther_lights_animations.yaml`. Supported keys are:
```

- `id` [*int*]: ID of an animation.

> - `animation` [*dict*]: description of animation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `animation` [*dict*]: definition of animation. See section below for more info.
```

Animation returning frame to display based on an image. The display duration which is a product of a single image duration and repeat count can't exceed 10 seconds. Supported keys are:

- `type` [*string*]: required field specyfying animation type, for `ImageAnimation` value should be `image_animation`.
- `image` [*string*]: path to an image file. If a path is not global will look in the `animations` folder in the ROS package specified in `animations_package` for the given name.
- `duration` [*float*]: duration of an animation.

> - `repeat` *(optional)* [*int*]: number of times the animation will be repeated, by default animation will run once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `repeat` [*int*, optional]: number of times the animation will be repeated, by default animation will run once.
```

> - `brightness` *(optional)* [float]: animation brightness, this will be used instead of controller `global_brightness`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `brightness` [float, optional]: animation brightness. This will overwrite `global_brightness` for a given animation.
```

> - `color` *(optional)* [*int*]: if set the image color will be changed to the specified one, advised way is to use HEX format eg. `0xff0000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `color` [*int*, optional]: image will be turned into grayscale and then the color will be applied with brightness from grayscale. Values have to be in HEX format.
```

> - `animations_package` *(optional)* [*string*]: ROS package containing `animations` folder with images. If not specified will default to this package. If using Docker given package has to be inside the same container as this package.

Reviewer: Parameters are not in alphabetical order

> - `animations_package` *(optional)* [*string*]: ROS package containing `animations` folder with images. If not specified will default to this package. If using Docker given package has to be inside the same container as this package.

Reviewer: As discussed on meeting. It would be nice if package would be evaluated in path section. So, path starting with **/** would be global path, path starting with **$(find my_awesome_package)** would be path searched within ROS packages and all the other options would be invalid.

### Defining animations

User can define own animations using basic animation types. Similar to basic ones user animations are parsed using a ROS parameter `/panther/lights/lights_controller_node/user_animations`. They can be loaded on node start or updated using the `/panther/lights/controller/update_animations` ROS service. For `ImageAnimation` you can use basic images from the `animations` folder and change their color with the `color` key ([see ImageAnimation](#imageanimation)). Follow the example below to add custom animations. 

1. Create a yaml file with an animation description list. Example file: 

> NOTE: ID numbers from 0 to 20 are reserved for system animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: ID numbers from 0 to 19 are reserved for system animations.
```
Let's keep a total of 20 animations reserved for us

```yaml
# user_animations.yaml
user_animations:
  - id: 21
    name: 'ANIMATION_1'
    animation:
      both:
        type: image_animation
        image: strip01_green.png
        duration: 2
        repeat: 2
        color: 0xffff00

  # animation with custom image
  - id: 22
    name: 'ANIMATION_2'
    animation:
      both:
        type: image_animation
        image: /animations/custom_image.png
        duration: 3
        repeat: 1

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# animation with custom image from custom ROS package
- id: 23
    name: 'ANIMATION_3'
    animation:
      both:
        type: image_animation
        image: $(find my_custom_animation_package)/animations/custom_image.png
        duration: 3
        repeat: 1
```
```

2. Add docker volume with a previously created animation description list. If using custom images for `ImageAnimation`, add also a docker volume with a folder containing custom images. On Raspberry Pi modify `compose.yaml`:

```yaml
volumes:
  - ./user_animations.yaml:/user_animations.yaml
  - ./animations:/animations
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Warning**
While using docker you will only be able to find packages that are within that docker. Only images from packages that were built inside that docker imge can be  found using `$(find my_package)` syntax. Global paths work normally, but will refere to paths inside docker container.
```

3. Modify `command` in `compose.yaml` to use user animations:

```yaml
command: roslaunch panther_bringup bringup.launch user_animations_file:=/user_animations.yaml --wait
```

4. Restart the docker container:

```
docker compose up -d
```

5. Display new animations:

```bash
rosservice call /lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, name: 'ANIMATION_1'}, repeating: false}"
```

#### Updating animation list at a runtime

User animations can be also updated at a runtime.

1. Create a yaml file with an animation description list similar to step 1 in [Defining animations](#defining-animations).

2. Update user animations ROS parameter:

```bash
rosparam load /path_to_description_file /namespace
# eg. 
rosparam load ./user_animations.yaml /panther/lights_controller_node
```

3. Update animation list with ROS service:

```bash
rosservice call /panther/lights/controller/update_animations "{}"
```

4. Display new animations:

```bash
rosservice call /lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, name: 'ANIMATION_1'}, repeating: false}"
```

### Defining new animation type

> It is possible to define your own animation type with a required behavior. All animation definitions are stored in `/src/animation` and inherit from the basic class `Animation`. Each animation must overwrite the basic method `__call__` which must return an animation frame as a list of integers. An animation should also contain `ANIMATION_NAME` used to identify it. Animation frames are displayed in the controller's main timer. To tweak animation duration time use the `controller_freq` and `_duration` variables. For an example see other animation definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to define your own animation type with expected, new behavior. All animation definitions are stored in `/src/animation` and inherit from the basic class `Animation`. Each animation must overwrite the basic method `__call__` which must return an animation frame as a list of integers. An animation should also contain `ANIMATION_NAME` used to identify it. Animation frames are displayed in the controller's main timer. To tweak animation duration time use the `controller_freq` and `_duration` variables. For an example see other animation definitions.
```
